--- Page 1 ---
DCI Katie DOUNIAS
Beds, Cambs & Herts Major Crime Unit
Police HQ, Hex Building
Hinchingbrooke Park
Huntingdon
PE29 6NP
BEDFORDSHIRE POLICE
M;j-o+ C;i–rrii–jriiI
12th May 2023
Dear Samantha Stephen,
Re: Operation Scan – Murder - Joshua and Gary Dunmore - 29/03/2023.
I write to advise you that upon review of the above investigation and material gathered to date, your
suspect status has been reinstated.
This means that the Beds, Cambs and Herts Major Crime Unit continue to investigate your suspected
involvement in the offence for which you were originally arrested namely, Conspiracy to Murder.
This letter is provided to you for information only, you do not need to take any action.
If you have any questions I advise you to contact a Solicitor.
Yours Sincerely
Detective Chief Inspector Katie Dounias
Senior Investigating Officer


--- Page 2 ---
PAUL HARRiS LL,B. (HONS)
SHILA KESHVARI LL.B, (HONS)
KIRSTY BISHOP LL,B. (HONS)
NATALIE BERMAN B.A. (HONS)
EDWARD FAIL
BRADSHAW
,WATERSON
SOLICITORS I Established 
1887
EDWARD 
PRESTON 
B.A. LL.M 
--’ ;: :-," i.'-'('’FiFiIJ!£s-1'- 1 ’
!-:J?:i!?'t i:_:>!':;!=r:' 1 1 Burford
Road, London E15 2ST
: 
:i main@eft>w.co.uk
:_ .'::--itlifF- I;) 020 7790 4032
}:fTinrF?eg"iCy !='i J 
C>7841 454
170
Mr P Stephen
Psc 37 Box 4663 Raf Mildenhall
Bury St Edmunds
Suffolk
IP28 8NG
KB/CD/S 105 18000 i
31 August 2023
Dear Paul,
Re: Your matter in King’s LInn Police Station on 7 June 2023
Next date and time: 7 Decernber 2023 at 1 lam, Thorpe Wood Police Station
I write following your interview on the above date at the above police station. As you are aware, you
were subsequently baited to return to Thoipe Wood Potice Station on 7 September 2023 at ! i am.
i have now been advised by the Police that your bail has been extended with a requirement to return
to Thorpe Wood police station on 7 Decewlber 2023 at 11 am. I am obliged to inform you that if you
fail to return to the above police station at the above time you may be committing a separate offence
that is punishable by a fine and/or iruprisonment. You no longer need to attend on 7 September 2023 .
CondiIions were attached to your bail that are as follows:
1)
2)
3)
4)
Not to enter Cambridgeshire other than for pre-arranged visits for social services and court
proceedings or military business, or when travelling to and fronr Newmarket;
Not to contact directly or indirectly with Mandy or Darren Seamark Lewis Dunrnore, Carol
Dunmore, Jane Philips, Trevor i=>unmore, Glen Dunmore, Robert Cochrane except as advised
by legal representatives;
To live and sleep each night at MdcicubaN US Air Force Base and make yourselfavaiiabie to
any attending police officer as required; and
To surrender your passport (which had been seized on your aITest on 7 June 2023),
i am obliged to inform you that if you fail to comply with these conditions, you could be arrested and
this could jeopardise your liberty,
<iii-/ ;: I: I.'.In:::a: C':}’B::,:: 150 Minories, London EC3N ILS 
)X 55659 Bow - ”'i\: $'1= eft)w.co.uk
Contracted with the Legal Aid Agency. Authorised and ragulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority SRA No. 48121. VAT Reg<1. No.
248 1349 55


--- Page 3 ---
PAUL HARRiS LL.B. (HONS)
SHILA KESHVARI LL.B. (HONS)
KIRSTY BISHOP LL,B, (HONS)
NATALIE BERMAN B.A, (HONS)
EDWARD FAIL
BRADSHAW
&WATERSON
EDWARD PRESTON B.A. LL.M
Senior 
(-:OnSL lit all L
SOLICITORS I Established 1887
i~/T ain Of lice: Bank Chambers
662-664 Commercial Road,
Limehouse, London E14 7H A
Elnai F: main(aefbw.co.uk
i_a11di ioe: 020 7790 4032
ITIncl-gency NQ: C>784:L 454 170
Mr P Stephen
Psc 37 Box 4663 Raf Mildenhall
Bury St Edmunds
Suffolk
IP28 8NG
KB/JT/SI 05 1 80001
08 June 202:3
Dear Paul.
Re: Your matter at Kings Lynn Police Station on 7th June 2023
Bail to return:
Venue:
7th September 2023 at IIam
Peterborough Custody
I write to confirm that I represented you at Kings Lynn police station on 7th June 2023 as your solicitor
when you were interviewed in relation to an allegation of conspiracy to commit murder.
The allegation against you \vas that you, \’our wife Samantha Stephen and your father-in-law Stephen
Aldeaon eonsi?ind to murder Joshua and Gary Dunmore. Stephen Akielton was the person who
cornrnitkd the murders on 29a' March 2023 but it was alleged that you and Sarnantha had planned with
him to kill or cause serious or really serious harm to Joshua and Gary Dunmore.
You had previously been arrested for this offence on 30th March 2023 and provided a full comment
interview. After the interview, the police had decided to take no further action against you. Subsequent
to this, the police had asked you to provide a witness statement and you did so on 1311= April 2023
After police had notified you of you being declared a suspect, you were arrested on 7th June 2023 .
i attended you in consultation and explained to you the materia! that the police had disclosed to me. I
explained to you that you would be in{en,'iewed under caution. The caution means that you do not have
to say anything. However, if you are charged and your case is taken to court and then you mention
something that {he eourt decide you could reasonably have been expected to merKion in interview, the
court may draw an inference over your failure to provide that information at the police station,
(:it v or I. , IIn'-lc,I ! c:JI !-It.c: 150 b4inories. London EC3N IL S 1:)X: 3C)0701 Tower Ham Jets W.::ii';ii*.:: efbw.co.uk
Contracted with the Legal Aid Agency. Authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Aott-Iority SRA No. 48121. VAT ReBd. No. 248 3.349 55


--- Page 4 ---
In relation to the allegation you instructed me that you had not committed the alleged offences and
denied any involvement in planning or encouraging the murders of Joshua and Gary Dunmore
During your time in eustody, you were interviewed three times and during each interview I advised
you to put forward a written statement and then to answer ’no cornment' to all questions in interview
I confirm that you accepted this advice and answered no oorbment to the majority of questions in
interview after the prepared statements were read out.
Following the interview, you were released on police bail with a requirement to return to Peterborough
police station on 7th September 2023 at 1 IaIn. Conditions were attached to your bail that are as follows
I ) Not to enter Carnbridgeshire other than for pre-arranged visits for social services and court
proceedings or military business.
2) Not to contact direetly or indirectly with Mandy or Darren Smmark, Lewis Dunmore, Carol
Dunmore, Jane Philips, Trevor Dunmore, Glen Dunnlore, Robert Cochrane except as advised
by legal representatives.
3) To live and sleep each night at Mildenhall US Air Force Base and make yourself available to
an\' attending police officer as required.
4) To surrender your passport (which had been seized on your arrest on 7th June 2023)
I am obliged to inform you that if you fail to attend the police station on 7th September or comply with
vour bail conditions you could be arrested and this could jeopardise your liberty in htture.
Should you require any further information at this time, please contact Kirsty Bishop who is dealing with
your matter and can be contacted on 0207 790 4032
Yours sincerely
James Tamplin
EDWARD FAIL, BRADSHAW & WATERSON


--- Page 5 ---
PAUL HARRIS LL.B. (HONS)
SHILA KESHVARI LL.B. (HONS)
KIRSTY BISHOP LL.B. (HONS)
NATALIE BERMAN B.A. (HONS)
EDWARD FAIL
BRADSHAW
&WATERSON
EDWARD PRESTON B.A. LL.MtSenIor Consultant
SOLICITORS IE,t,bti,h,d 
1887
Main Office: 
11 
Burford
Road. London E15 2ST
E:mai!: main@efbw,co_uk
Land;inc: 020 7790 4032
Emergency No' 07841 454
170
Mr P Stephen
Email only
KB/CD/S 105180001
05 June 2024
Dear Paul,
Re: Your matter in Thorpe Wood Police Station
I write to confirm that we have now received confirmation from the officer in charge of your case that
you no longer need to attend to answer your bail on 7 June 2024 at 11:00 at the above police station.
This is because the Police have decided to release you under investigation. This means that you are not
on bail and so you do not have any bail conditions. This means that you do not have a fixed date to
return to the police station, but that the Police will continue to investigate this allegation. If you are
contacted by the Police about this matter, or if you receive a summons to attend Court, then please
contact us immediately.
Should you require any further information at this time, please contact me or Kirsty Bishop who are
dealing with your matter and can be contacted on 0207 790 4032.
Yours sincerely,
Courtney-Leigh Dearing
EDWARD FAIL, BRADSHAW & WATERSON
City of London OfHcc: 150 Minories, London EC3N ILS DX: 55659 Bow Website: efbw.co.uk
Contracted with the Legal Aid Agency. Authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority SRA No. 48121. VAT Regd. No
248 1349 55


--- Page 6 ---
APPLICATION FOR EXTENSION OF PRE-CHARGE BAIL
(Criminal Procedure Rules, rr.14.19 & 14.20; sections 47ZF - 47ZJ, Police & Criminal Evidence
Act 1984)
This form is for use ONLY on an application to extend pre-charge bail in the case of a
person arrested for the suspected offence on or after 28th October 2022.
Completing the Form
Before completing the form please read Notes for guidance (including how to
use this form). You will also find links to sections of that guidance within the form
You must ensure that all applicable sections are completed in full. Failure to do
so will result in your application being returned.
This application must be made before the applicable bail period ends
Timing guidance).
You must disclose any information which undermines the application (Undermining
application guidance) . Where there is an application to withhold information from
the suspect (CrimPR r 14.20), you must also complete a confidential information
supplement (Confidential information guidance).
Application details ( MeMWad3DJ,e)
Regional court hub to determine application:
D Birmingham Magistrates’ Court
n Bristol Magistrates’ Court
a Cardiff Magistrates’ Court
[] Gateshead Magistrates’ Court
A Highbury Corner Magistrates’ Court
a Manchester Magistrates’ Court
D Westminster Magistrates’ Court (Hub for Serious Fraud Office, Financial
Conduct Authority and terrorism cases only)
Correspondence in terrorism cases (for definition see Criminal Practice Directions
XIII Annex 4)
Applications, responses and queries regarding terrorism cases should be directed and
addressed to Westminster Magistrates’ Court, 181 Marylebone Road, London NWI
5BR
Email: PCBWestminster@justice.gov.uk Phone number: 020 3126 3010
Correspondence all other cases
All other applications, responses and queries must be directed and addressed to the Pre-
Charge Bail (PCB) Central Administrative Unit, Cardiff and the Vale Magistrates’ Court,
Fitzalan Place, Cardiff, South Wales, CF24 0RZ
Email: HMCTSPre-ChargeBail@iustice.gov.uk Telephone: 02920 678300
1
April 2023


--- Page 7 ---
Contact Details
1
2,
Are there any other documents with this form? B No 
[] Yes
Suspect’s details (individual on pre-charge bail) – complete ALL sections
URN: 35/KL/392/23
ASN: 23/0000/OO/657254F
Surname: STEPHEN
First Name(s): Paul
Date of birth: 06/06/1995
Address: RAF Mildenhall Bury St. Edmunds, SufFolk
Postcode: IP28 8NF
Gender: NMale n Female
Contact Telephone Number (if known):
Email Address (if known):
3. Representation details (if known)
Representative’s Name: James TAMPLI N
Firm Name and Address: Edward Fail Bradshaw & Waterston, 11 Burford Road,
Stratford, London, E15 2ST
Contact Telephone Number: 0207 790 4032
4. Applicant’s details (officer details/investigating officer details) Applicant’s details
guidance
This is an application made by: DC 2072 ATKINSON
Of: 
Cambridgeshire Constabulary
Address: Cambridgeshire Police Headquarters, Hinchingbrooke Park, Huntingdon
Postcode: PE29 6NP
Secure
communication)
Contact telephone number(s) : 07548 140299
I am a constable and am entitled to make this application.
email
address:Claire.atkinson@cambs. police. uk(best
line
of
(use expandable free text box below for explanation):
Applicant status guidance
2
April 2023


--- Page 8 ---
Service 
of application 
Service quidance
5. 1 have sent the suspect a copy of this application and response form on: 28/02/202,
by D first class post R hand D email
and
I informed the suspect of this application on: 28/02/2024
by a telephone n text a email US Police are serving the application
Timing of application DMnaw©an@
6. If the applicable bail period is due to end less than 5 business days after service
of this application; why was the application not made earlier? (if applicable, give
details using the expandable free text box below)
Application with or without an oral court hearing
7. Application with or without an oral court hearing? (Tick the box that applies.
Usually no hearing will be arranged.) 
With/Without hearing guidance
Will this extension, if granted, extend the bail period to greater than 24 months in
total?
[] Yes N No
If yes, are you asking for the court to list it as an oral hearing?
[] Yes D No
If yes, I think the following circumstances require a court hearing (give details
using the expandable free text box below):
If the court arranges a hearing (see Live link quidance)
I prefer to attend: [] in person n by video link N by telephone
Nature of application WM©®blw
8. Arrest date: 07/06/2023
Bail Start Date (i.e. day following arrest): 08/06/2023
Current applicable bail period (abp) end date: 07/03/2024
9. 
Select one of the following two options:
E First extension application to court (PL84504) Go to 10.
[] Subsequent application to court after previous extension(s) b / court (PL84505
3
April 2023


--- Page 9 ---
Go straight to 11.
10. Application to extend the initial applicable bail period to a total of:
N 12 months from bail start date
n 18 months from bail start date
n 24 months from bail start date (s.47ZDB or s. 47ZE cases only)
New applicable bail period end date: 07/06/2024
11. Subsequent application to court after previous extension(s) by court
(PL84505)
for
n a further 3 months from the end of the current applicable bail period
n a further 6 months from the end of the current applicable bail period
New applicable 
bail period 
end date: 
Click or tap to enter a date.
Is this a renewed application following refusal(s)? [] Yes B No
If yes, give date(s) of previous refusal(s):
Click or tap to enter a date. 
Click or tap to enter a date. 
Click or tap to enter a date.
The investigation 
(all questions MUST be answered) W©Ug_Lomuidance
12. (a) This case:
E is under investigation by the police
[] is under investigation by the Serious Fraud Office
H is under investigation by the Financial Conduct Authority
n is under investigation by the National Crime Agency
[] is under investigation by HM Revenue and Customs
[] is under investigation by another agency
D has been designated by the Director of Public Prosecutions as exceptionally
complex
(b) For what offence(s) was the suspect arrested and is now on pre-charge bail?
(Give details using the expandable free text box below.)
Conspiracy to murder
(c) Has the suspect been arrested but not yet charged for any other offence(s)?
[] Yes (if yes, give details in the expandable free text box below) N No
(d) Using the expandable free text box below, give a summary of what the
4
April 2023


--- Page 10 ---
investigation is about (e.9. £handlin9 property &tolen in local burglarie8’ /
'sexual offences alleged to have taken place 10 years ago’ / fraud on
investors in X Co. Ltd etc)
This is a case in which the DP and his wife are charged with conspiracy to
murder two persons, namely Joshua DUNMORE and Gary DUNMORE.
Joshua and Gary DUNMORE were murdered in their respective homes on
the evening of 29a' March 2023.
The persons involved in the case are as follows:
• 
Paul STEPHEN – he is the DP and subject of this application. He is
a serving American Airman based at RAF Mildenhall.
• 
The co-accused, Samantha STEPHEN is the DP’s wife. The D/P
and his wife have a 3 year old daughter.
• 
Stephen ALDERTON – is the D/p’s father-in-law, who killed Joshua
and Gary DUNMORE.
• 
Joshua DUNMORE – is the DP’s wife’s ex-partner, with whom she
has a 7 year old boy who is diagnosed with autism.
• 
Gary DUNMORE - Joshua's father.
Both victims were murdered in their home addresses which are
approximately 6 miles apart, by Stephen ALDERTON. They were
essentially executed by ALDERTON who used a shotgun he owned to kill
both unarmed victims. ALDERTON killed Joshua DUNMORE first at his
home address of 19 Meridian Close Bluntisham, Cambridgeshire, before
driving 6 miles to 140a The Row, Sutton, Cambridgeshire, to shoot and kill
Gary DUNMORE callously reloading the shotgun before “finishing him off’.
Stephen ALDERTON has pleaded guilty to both murders and is currently
serving a life sentence in Prison with a minimum tariff of 30 years. During
sentencing the Judge remarked that there was evidence of significant pre
meditation and planning. He referred specifically to text messages he had
sent to the DP’s wife as far back as April/June 2022 where ALDERTON
referred to “Fleeing to Panama” and that “There is always a plan B” as well
as “Independence Day” amongst other things.
5
April 2023


--- Page 11 ---
The DP and his wife were initially arrested at a hotel they were staying at
around 00:35 hrs 30th March 2023, just over 3 hours after the first murder.
They were arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to murder.
Stephen ALDERTON was arrested from his vehicle on the M5 at 01:30 hrs
on 30th March 2023 on suspicion of murder x2.
Background
The DP’s wife and Joshua DUNMORE were going through a family Court
case to decide on where their 7 year old son was to live. The DP had
received a posting order to return to the USA, so they wanted to take the
DP’s wife’s son, as well as their own daughter there. The date of the
posting meant that the DP had to be in the USA in April 2023.
Joshua DUNMORE did not want his son moving to the USA, hence the
Family Court matter as to where the 7 year child was to live. On Monday
27th March 2023 there was a planned Interim Family Court hearing, in
which a CAFCASS report recommended that the child was NOT to be
removed from the UK whilst proceedings were in place. Evidence gathered
thus far indicates that the DP and his wife planned to take the child to the
US in March 2023 regardless of any Court adjudication. At the 27th March
hearing, a final court hearing date was not “set in stone” however it was
noted that it could be “several months away” and child custody
arrangements were to continue unchanged.
Arrests and current chronology
Once the murders had been committed, all 3 suspects were arrested
swiftly. The DP and his wife were arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to
murder just under an hour before ALDERTON was arrested for the
murders. They were taken into custody and interviewed on the 30th March
2023. They gave accounts but released NFA by the SIO at that time on
31“ March. Following their release, they both gave witness statements.
Upon a full investigative review, the new SIO declared the DP and his wife
as suspects, and they were both re-arrested at RAF Mildenhall on 7th June
2023 on suspicion of conspiracy to murder. A large amount of electronics
were seized, and they both gave “no comment” interviews under caution.
As the investigation has progressed the DP has been bailed firstly by a
Police Inspector and latterly by a Police Superintendent. It needs to be
6
April 2023


--- Page 12 ---
noted that the DP’s wife is his co-accused and is currently heavily
pregnant. We have been told that she is due to give birth on 27th
March so therefore would not be accepted into custody at this time.
Also, there is a family Court hearing listed to run between 26th
February and 6th March, therefore even overrunning by one day
would mean that the DP could not return on bail in any case, and an
urgent submission would be required at the last minute.
The suspect’s 
bail (all questions MUST be answered)
13
(a) Since the suspect was released on pre-charge bail has a Senior Officer (e.g.
Superintendent) authorised an extension of the applicable bail period?
N Yes (if yes, give details below) 
a No
Date(s) of Decision(s)
Extension Until (APB end
date
Bail Conditions (if different
to present conditions
07/09/2023 Inspector
03/01 /2024
To live and sleep at RAF
Mildenhall
07/1 2/2023
Superintendent
Click or tap to enter a date.
07/03/2024
To live and sleep at RAF
Mildenhall
(b) Since the suspect was released on pre-charge bail has the court authorised an
extension of the applicable bail period?
a Yes (if yes, give details below) 
B No
Date(s) of
Decision(s)
Court
Applicable Bail
Period extended to
6, 9 or 12 months
Bail Conditions (if
different to present
conditions)
Chc}c or tap to enter a
date
Choose an item.
Click or tap to enter a
date
Choose an item
CliGk or tap to enter a
date
C:hoos© ari ilan
Choose an iterr!
Choose all iterr!
Choose an hem
(c) During the applicable bail period has there been any period when the suspect
was on bail pursuant to PACE section 37(7)(a) for the case to be referred to the
CPS for a charging decision?
7
April 2023


--- Page 13 ---
[] Yes (if yes, give details below)
B No
If yes, give the following information:
(i) the date(s) on which the suspect was bailed under PACE section 37(7)(a):
Click or tap to enter a date. 
Click or tap to enter a date. 
Click or tap to enter a date.
Ciick or tap to enter a date. 
Click or UP to enter a date. 
Click or tap to enter a date.
(ii) the date(s) on which the case was referred back to you for further investigation:
Click or tap to enter a date. 
Click or tap to enter a date. 
Click or tap to enter a date.
Click or tap to enter a date.
Click or tap to enter a date.
Click or tap to enter a date
The suspect’s present bail conditions (all questions MUST be answered)
14. (a) What are the present condition(s) of the suspect’s bail? (Give details using the
expandable free text box below.)
1 - To Surrender your passport
2 - Not to contact or communicate, either directly or indirectly with
Mandy or Darren Seamark, Lewis Dunmore, Carol Dunmore, Jane
Philips, Trevor Dunmore, Glen Dunmore, Robert Cochrane except as
advised by legal representatives and in conjunction with Family Court
orders
3 - Not to enter Cambridgeshire apart from pre-arranged visits for social
services and court proceedings and for travel to and from Newmarket.
Summarise the reasons for each condition, using the expandable free text box
below
I - GROUNDS/REASONS: Failing to surrender to custody.
DP is a serving USAF Airman and was due to be posted back to the
USA just after the murders. If released from bail, the DP and his wife
could travel to the USA before the investigation has been concluded.
Therefore passports are required to be surrendered.
2 - GROUNDS/REASONS: Interfering with witnesses or otherwise
obstructing the course of justice.
The currently named prosecution witnesses are the family/friends of the
2 deceased victims of the murder. They are also involved in a family
Court case regarding the custody of DP’s wife’s 7 year old son.
8
April 2023


--- Page 14 ---
Therefore, a non-communication condition is required to ensure that the
course of justice is neither obstructed nor interfered with.
3 - GROUNDS/REASONS: Interfering with witnesses or otherwise o
The DP and his wife are currently residing in Suffolk and do not have
family in Cambridgeshire. They need to enter Cambridgeshire for
Police, social services, and Family Court matters. A personal
concession has been allowed for the DP and his wife to go to
Newmarket. Apart from the above reasons, there is no requirement for
them to enter the county of Cambridgeshire. This condition also goes
towards alleviating any risk as per point #2
(C)
If
the
4. GROUNDS/REASONS: Protecting a vulnerable person
Paul and Samantha Stephen have been arrested on suspicion of
conspiring to murder 8 year old Ryan’s father and paternal grandfather.
The motive for these offences is known to be centred around the
matters heard in the family court. In addition to these offences Police are
considering and investigating offences of Conspiring to Abduct a Child
and Pewerting the Course of Justice. (The circumstances of these
offences pertain to the same investigation). It is therefore imperative that
bail conditions are in place to prevent further similar offending.
court authorises an extension of pre-charge bail, will the same conditions apply?
N Yes 
a No
(d) if no, what will the pre-charge bail conditions be? (Give details using the
expandable free text box below and explain who has requested the variation.)
N/A
9
April 2023


--- Page 15 ---
Reasons 
for application 
Reasons for application quidance
15. If the reason for this application is that more time is needed for investigation,
answer the questions at Section A
If the reason for this application is that more time is needed to make a police
charging decision, answer the questions at Section B
You must always answer question Section C
In every case, explain clearly and concisely the grounds for your belief. The
court must be satisfied that your grounds are reasonable.
Section A
Why do you believe that;
(a) further investigation is needed of any matter relating to the offence or
offences for which the suspect is on pre-charge bail? (using the expandable free
text box explain what still needs to be done with estimated completion
dates; this is your future investigation timeline).
This is a complex conspiracy to murder investigation. You will see in
Section B how much work that has already been undertaken, and what
work is still required. However an important reason for extending the DP’s
bail at this time is that his wife is heavily pregnant and has to have her bail
extended accordingly . We have been told that her baby is due to be born
around the 27tF1 March 2024, therefore we do not believe that a custody
Sergeant would accept the DP’s wife back into custody – currently 7th
March - whilst almost 9 months pregnant. There is a requirement for the
DP to be interviewed around evidence obtained in electronic devices, and
also witness accounts put to his wife. The DP supplied an incorrect PIN
number for a laptop that was seized upon his arrest and has been asked to
supply the correct one via his solicitor – this matter is still outstanding. As
you will see below, a large number of electronic devices were seized, and
it is a very time consuming matter to review all of the material obtained.
This work is still ongoing. The laptop mentioned above needs to be
downloaded and reviewed and we are still waiting on the DP to supply this,
or take to advice if he fails or refuses to do so. The DP can be further
interviewed at this time, but any account or information obtained from such
interviews may be relevant information to put to his wife in an interview,
therefore an extension of bail is required, to allow this to happen.
Current Family Court Proceedings - The D/P and his wife will be
attending the Family Court regarding a Child Custody hearing from the 26th
February to 6th March 2024. There is however a chance that this may case
10
April 2023


--- Page 16 ---
overrun past the 7th March 2024. An extension now would prevent an
urgent application at a later date.
AND
(b) the investigation into the offence(s) for which the suspect is on pre-charge bail
is being conducted diligently and expeditiously? (Summarise what has been
done to date and when using the expandable free text box below. Explain
when you expect completion of each outstanding matter: this is your
past and present investigation timeline.)
At the time of writing the following extensive enquiries have been
undertaken during the investigation as a whole:
• 
215 witness statements obtained.
• 
314 Officer reports completed.
• 483 investigative actions raised.
• 
42 electronic devices including mobile phones, laptops, smart
watches, tablets, games consoles have been seized and all need
to be downloaded and reviewed – this is still a work in progress as
mentioned above.
•
A full Prosecution file completed for a double murder trial.
• 
A large amount of CCTV, ring doorbell and similar media has been
obtained and viewed .
Further investigative actions:
Examination of electronic equipment - The DP supplied PIN numbers
for various devIces when he was interviewed. There is one laptop that the
PIN number given is either incorrect, or does not work. The D/P (via his
solicitor) has been asked to supply the correct code; however this has not
yet been supplied by him. Once accessed, a review may take a number of
weeks to complete, but it will be classed as a priority.
Interviews – There is further evidence/information to put to the DP by way
of a suspect interview, however for medical reasons the D/p’s wife will not
be accepted into custody whilst heavily pregnant. So whilst any further
interviews with the DP could take place within a day, we will have to wait
until the D/p’s wife is fit to be detained and interviewed to finalise all
suspect interviews.
Section B
Why do you believe that;
11
April 2023


--- Page 17 ---
(a) more time is needed to make a police charging decision relating to the offence
or offences for which the suspect is on pre-charge bail. (Explain using the
expandable free fexf box below. Where a CPS charging decision is
awaited the running time of the applicable bail period is suspended and
you do not need the court’s authority to extend it.)
N/A
AND
(b) the decision as to whether to charge the suspect with the offence(s) is being
made diligently and expeditiously. (Explain using the expandable free text
box below.)
Section C – must always be completed
Using the expandable free text box, explain why you believe that the suspect’s
further release on bail is necessary and proportionate in all the circumstances,
having regard to any conditions of bail imposed?
The suspect’s further release on bail is necessary and proportionate given
all the circumstances. The D/P is the co-accused, along with his wife in a
complicated conspiracy to murder two people. Extensive enquiries have
been carried out to date and further enquiries and actions are still required.
These include, but are not limited to further interviews of 2 D/p’s, further
examination of electronic equipment delayed by the wrong PIN number
being supplied, a full VIPER procedure, and other ancillary enquiries
Whilst all of the above are necessary and proportionate actions, we are
also very aware that the DP’s wife is currently heavily pregnant, so a bail
extension for her and her future babies own welfare is a major
consideration in this application for her husband.
Application for first court extension to a longer period (s.47ZF(6))
16. If this application is for an extension of the applicable bail period to a period within
s.47ZF(6), explain using the expandable free text box below why the investigation is
unlikely to be completed or a charging decision made unless the applicable bail
period is extended to that longer period.
N/A
12
April 2023


--- Page 18 ---
Application for Subsequent Extension of Pre-Charge Bail by 6 Months
(s.47ZG(6))
17. If this application is for an extension of the applicable bail period for a further 6
months, explain using the expandable free text box below why the investigation is
unlikely to be completed or a charging decision made within 3 months.
N/A
Declaration 
- See CrIminalProcedure Rules r,f4,20(6) WWowQ1 
go_@
This section must be completed otherwise this application will be refused and returned to
you
18. To the best of my knowledge and belief:
(a) this application discloses all the information that is material to what the court
must decide, including anything that might reasonably be considered capable of
undermining any of the grounds of the application, and
(b) the content of this application is true.
Digitally signed :
Name (include rank; collar No./Other status): DC 2072 ATKINSON
Date: 27/02/2024
If the person making this declaration is an investigator; who is not the applicant
named on page 1 of this application, give rank; collar No,/other status:
I serve a copy of this application on the court:
Date: 
Time:
13
April 2023


--- Page 19 ---
Notes for guidance for applicants (back to start)
When to use this form
This form is for an application to a magistrates’ court for authority to extend the period during which
a suspect (a person who has been arrested for an offence and released without being charged)
may be on pre-charge bail.
The application 
must be made before the applicable 
bail period ends (Timinq guidance).
Bail Start Date (link back to form section)
A suspect’s bail start date should always be the original bail start date i.e. the day after arrested
for an offence, unless the suspect was released under investigation and then re-arrested. If this
scenario occurs, the new bail date (the day after the arrest) would become the suspect’s new bail
start date.
Applicable bail period (ABP)
Sections 47ZA and 47ZB of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE) limit the period for
which a suspect who has been arrested for an offence may be on bail after being released without
being charged. This is called the applicable bail period and is
(a) 6 months from the day after the day on which the suspect was arrested (the
suspect’s 'bail start date’) in an “FCA”, “HMRC”, “NCA” or “SFO” case (that is a
case, as defined by section 47ZB, being investigated by the Financial Conduct
Authority, an officer of revenue and Customs, the National crime Agency or the
Serious Fraud Office, as applicable,
(b) 3 months from the suspect’s bail start date in any other case e.g. a police case
(“a standard case”)
Initial Extension of ABP in police case
In a standard case, the applicable bail period may be extended on the authority of a police
officer of the rank of at least inspector until the end of 6 months from the bail start date
(sections 47ZC and 47ZD PACE) and further extended on the authority of police officer of at
least a superintendent until the end of 9 months from the bail start date (section 47ZDA).
If the case is designated by the Director of Public Prosecutions as exceptionally complex (a
'designated case’) the applicable bail period may be further extended, on the authority of a police
officer of the rank of at least of commander or assistant chief constable, until the end of 1 2 months
from the bail start date (sections 47ZC and 47ZE PACE).
Initial Extension of ABP in FCA, HI IRC, NCA or SFO case
The applicable bail period may be extended by an “appropriate decision maker” until the end of 1 2
months from the bail start date (section 47ZDB). An appropriate decision maker is
in an FCA case, a member of staff of the Financial Conduct Authority who is of the
description designated for the purposes of this section by the Chief Executive of that
Authority
in an HMRC case, an officer of Revenue and Customs of a grade that is equivalent to the
rank of superintendent or above,
in an NCA case, a National Crime Agency officer of a grade that is equivalent to the rank
of superintendent or above,
•
e
•
, 
in an SFO case, a member of the Serious Fraud Office who is of the Senior Civil Service.
14
April 2023


--- Page 20 ---
Initial
•
extension of APB by court (section 47ZF PACE)
A magistrates’ court may, on application and where the conditions in that section are met,
authorise an extension of the applicable bail period–
o 
in a standard case from a previous total of 9 months (following extension
under section 47ZDA) to a new total of 12 months, or, if the investigation is
unlikely to be completed or a charging decision (other than a CPS charging
decision) made within a lesser period, a new total of 18 months
(s.47ZF(6)&(7)).
o in a standard case from a previous total of 12 months (following extension
under section 47ZE) to a new total of 18 months, or, if the investigation is
unlikely to be completed or a charging decision (other than a CPS charging
decision) made within a lesser period, a new total of 24 months
(s.47ZF(6)&(7)).
o in a FCA, HMRC, NCA or SFO case, from a previous total of 12 months
(following extension under section 47ZDB) to a new total of 1 8 months, or if
the investigation is unlikely to be completed or a charging decision made
within a lesser period, a new total of 24 months (s.47ZF(6)&(7))
An application can be made by a constable, a member of staff of the Financial Conduct
Authority, an officer of Revenue and Customs, a member of the Serious Fraud Office or a
Crown Prosecutor
The application must be made before the date on which the applicable bail period ends.
The court has no power to grant pre-charge bail itself, only to authorise a grant of bail by a
custody officer.
•
•
•
Further extension of ABP by court (section 47ZG PACE)
on a further application for extension of the ABP a magistrates’ court may, where the
applicable conditions are met, authorise a further extension of the applicable bail period,
on each occasion by
o 
a further 3 months or
o or if the investigation iS unlikely tO be completed or a charging decision (other than
a CPS charging decision) made within a lesser period, a further 6 months
There may be more one application for further extension of the ABP.
The court has no power to grant pre-charge bail itself, only to authorise a grant of bail
by a custody officer.
When the ABP does not begin/ is suspended
Under PACE section 47ZL the running of the applicable bail period does not begin (in the case of
a first release on bail) or is suspended (in any other case) where–
a) the suspect is released on bail under PACE section 37(7)(a) to await a Crown
Prosecution Service charging decision under PACE section 37B; or
b) following arrest for breach of such bail the suspect is again released on bail under PACE
section 37C(2)(b).
The court’s authority therefore is not required for an extension of an applicable bail period the
running of which is postponed or suspended pending a CPS charging decision. However–
(a) time runs in any period during which information requested by the CPS is being
obtained; and
(b) if the CPS requests information less than 7 days before the applicable bail period
otherwise would end then the running of that period is further suspended until the
end of 7 days beginning with the day on which the CPS request was made.
15
April 2023


--- Page 21 ---
Contents of Application
An application to the court must explain–
(a) the grounds for believing that, as applicable–
(i) further investigation is needed of any matter relating to the offence or offences for which
the suspect was released on bail, or
(ii) further time is needed for deciding as to whether to charge the suspect with that offence
or those offences;
(b) the grounds for believing that, as applicable–
(i) the investigation into the offence or offences for which the suspect was released on
bail is being conducted diligently and expeditiously, or
(ii) the decision as to whether to charge the suspect with that offence or those offences is
being made diligently and expeditiously; and
(c) the grounds for believing that the suspect’s further release on bail is necessary
and proportionate in all the circumstances having regard to any conditions of bail
imposed.
When the court must consider the application
• 
The court must determine an application
o as soon as practicable
o but as a rule no sooner than the fifth business day after the application was served
on the suspect, to allow the suspect time within which to respond.
• 
See for reference section 47ZI PACE and rules 14.20 and 14.21 of the Criminal Procedure
Rules (CrimPFI).
Court determination of application with or without a hearing
Under PACE section 47ZI and CrimPR 14.18 the court must determine an application without a
hearing except where–
(a) if the application succeeds, its effect will be to extend the applicable bail period to
more than 24 months from the ball start date and the applicant or the suspect asks
for a hearing;
(b) if the application succeeds, its effect will be to extend the applicable bail period to
24 months or less from the bail start date and the court considers that the interests
of justice require a hearing;
(c) the application includes an application to withhold information from the suspect
and the court considers that the interests of justice require a hearing of that part of
the application. Under PACE section 47ZI(8)(b) the court must exclude the suspect
and any legal representative of the suspect from any such hearing.
Effect on bail pending determination of application
Where an application is made under section 47ZF or section 47ZG, a suspect’s bail is to be treated
as extended until the application is determined (section 47ZJ PACE)
How to use this form
General notes
• 
Complete the details on the front page and
o all sections (1) to (9); and
o 
section (10) or (11); and
16
April 2023


--- Page 22 ---
o all sections (12) – (17)
Failure to fully and accurately complete this form will result in this form being
returned to you and your application being refused.
Where free text boxes DO NOT apply, please mark these as N/A.
Please use an electronic version of this form, the boxes will expand - see the forms
at https://www.gov.uk/guidance/criminal-procedure-rules-forms
Dates are entered using Date pickers These will default to current date so must be
changed depending on question being answered.
Hyperlinks take you to specific parts of the guidance, the question/direct you to the
guidance pages within this form. To activate links either click on link or hold control button
and click.
•
•
•
•
•
Sending or delivering a copy of the completed form to the Central Administrative Unit (link
back to section of form)
• 
Pre-charge bail applications are determined at six regional hubs as specified on page 1.
• 
Make sure the Central Administrative Unit or Westminster Magistrates’ Court knows if the
application is urgent.
• 
You may send the application by secure email or by other secure electronic means (where
other means are available – e.g. by uploading it to a secure website).
• 
An application delivered to the court office by electronic means (including email) is valid1 if
it includes a reproduction of your signature. The court staff will recognise as genuine by
your electronic address (e.g. police or other agencies secure email address).
Service of the Application
Send or deliver a copy of the completed form to the suspect, with a form for the suspect to
use to respond if he or she wishes.
e
You can find a copy of the response form at https://www.gov.uk/guidance/criminal-
procedure-rules-forms
If the suspect has a legal representative you can send or deliver a copy of the completed
form to that representative for the suspect, but you must serve the application on the
suspect as well (see CrimPR 4.10(D).
If the suspect is under 18, or has a limited understanding of what the case involves, you
should consider sending or delivering a copy of the completed form to a parent, guardian
or other suitable supporting adult (see CrimPR 46.1(1 )(c)).
Applicant’s details (link back to section of form)
• 
The court may need to contact you urgently.
• 
Give contact details that you are content for the suspect to have.
Status of the applicant
Under PACE section 47ZF (8) the applicant must be a constable, a member of staff of the Financial
Conduct Authority, a member of the Serious Fraud Office; a member of HMRC or a Crown
Prosecutor. You must satisfy the court about your entitlement to make the application.
Timing of application
• 
You must apply to the court before the applicable bail period ends. The court has no power
to extend that time limit (sections 47ZF (2) and 47ZG (2) PACE).
17
April 2023


--- Page 23 ---
•
in practice, you will need to apply to the court and serve the application on the suspect at
least a full working week before the applicable bail period ends. If you have not done that,
explain why in box (5).
if you apply before the applicable bail period ends but it is not practicable for the
court to determine the application before the end of that period (for example because
the suspect’s time for response to the application will not have expired by then)
o the court may refuse the application; and
o the test the court will apply is whether “it appears to the court that it would have
been reasonable for the application to have been made in time for it to have been
determined by the court before the end of the applicable bail period in relation to
the person (PACE section 47ZJ(4)).
Deciding the application with or without a hearing
• 
The court must decide the application without a hearing except in certain circumstances
(see under 'When to use this form’ above) (section 47ZI (1), (7) PACE and CrimPR 14.18).
• 
if you think that the court should arrange a hearing, you must explain how those
circumstances are met.
Live links
•
•
Where a video or telephone link is available, it can be used for you to attend the court, if
the court allows
This application form must have been delivered to the court office in advance (delivery may
be by secure email: see 'How to use this form’ above), and you will be required to take an
oath (or affirm).
The investigation
Give sufficient details for the court to be able to make an informed decision about the application.
Reasons for application
You must give the court reasonable grounds for believing that the PACE conditions for
extending pre-charge bail are met.
The question 15 - Section C is about the balance the court must strike, before authorising
an extension of pre-charge bail, and even if all the other conditions in doing so are satisfied ,
between (i) the importance of the suspect’s rights as a person who is suspected of, but not
yet charged with, an offence (and who may never be charged, let alone convicted), and (ii)
the important public interest in the effective investigation of crime, taking account of the
rights and interests of victims, witnesses and communities by maintaining some level of
protection and minimising the risk of further offences.
Bail conditions must be listed in questions 13 & 14.
In question 15 Section C it may be relevant to mention the suspect’s previous criminal
record, if any.
The court will consider carefully, among other things, the need for the bail conditions that
are to be imposed. A useful approach is to ask yourself the question why the need for the
suspect to be on bail and subject to those conditions should be allowed to override the
suspect’s rights as a member of the public? and then explain that in your answer to the
question. Under PACE sections 47F and 47G the court has no power to alter the bail
conditions to be imposed, only to allow or refuse the application.
Information that undermines the application
, 
You must tell the court about anything that could be said to raise doubts about the credibility
or reliability of information you have received and explain why you have decided that that
information can be relied upon despite that.
, 
The court will not necessarily refuse your application where you reveal something that
tends to undermine the reasons for making it, but if you do not reveal such information then
that may render any order unlawful.
18
April 2023


--- Page 24 ---
RESPONSE TO APPLICATION FOR EXTENSION OF PRE-CHARGE BAIL
(Criminal Procedure Rules, r.14.19; sections 47ZF – 47ZJ, Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984)
This form is for use ONLY on an application to extend pre-charge bail in the case of a person
arrested for the suspected offence on or after 28th October 2022.
To be completed by the applicant before sending this form to the defendant.
Name of defendant (person on bail): Surname. . . . . . ...... ... ......First Name(s)........................ 
.
Defendant’s date of birth: .......................... 
URN: ................. 
ASN: .........
Date of the application to which this form relates: .................. 
... ................ 
. .. . ............ .
Regional Court Hub: ....................................................
While applications will be determined at the appropriate Regional Court Hub all applications, responses
and queries (except for terrorism cases) must be directed and addressed to the Pre-Charge Bail
Central Administrative Unit at:
Cardiff and the Vale Magistrates’ Court, Fitzalan Place, Cardiff, South Wales, CF24 0RZ
Email: HMCTSPre-CharqeBail@}justice.gov.uk
Phone number: 02920 678300
Applications, responses and queries regarding terrorism cases should be directed to Westminster
Magistrates’ Court, 181 Marylebone Road, London NWI 5BR, PCBWestminster@justice.gov.uk
Phone number: 020 3126 3010
The time limit for your response is 5 business days1 after the day on which the
application is served on you.
Important information for the defendant (i.e. person on pre-charge bail)
1. If you have a legal representative, show them this form at once. You are recommended to take
legal advice. You may be eligible for legal aid.
2. This form is to help you respond to an application to the court for authority to keep you on
police bail during an investigation.
3. There is a time limit for your response. See the notes underneath.
4. You are still on pre-charge bail and you must continue to comply with any conditions of your
bail unless told otherwise by the court or by the investigators (e.g. the police).
Read all the notes in the boxes beneath before you fill in this form.
Why you have received this form
you have received this form because:
, 
you were arrested for a suspected offence and then released on bail without being charged,
, 
the investigator wants more time to investigate, or more time for a decision to be made about
charging you, and wants you to be kept on bail during that time, and
e the investigator is making an application to a magistrates’ court for authority tO extend the period
during which you can be kept on pre-charge bail
with this form you will receive a copy of the investigator’s application to the court. That application
explains for how long1 and why, the investigator wants the court to authorise an extension of the period
during which you can be kept on pre-charge bail.
1 'Business day, means any day except Saturday, Sunday, Christmas Day, Boxing Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday or a bank
holiday
April 20234


--- Page 25 ---
What to do if you object to the application
If you want to object to the investigator’s application you must do so in writing. Under the
Criminal Procedure Rules, the time limit for your response is 5 business days1 after the day on
which the application is served on you. Under the Rules, the day on which the application is served
on you depends on how it was delivered or sent to you. For example, if it is handed to you then it is
served on the day it is handed over. If it was posted then it will be served on you on the second business
day after posting.
The court can extend the time limit for your response, but you need to be aware that:
• 
usually the court will make its decision without a court hearing and as soon as the time limit for
your response has expired. To allow for the service of the application on you, that is likely to be
7 days after the date of the application form.
• 
if you want more time in which to reply fully, you should fill in as much of this form as you can,
including the application for more time in which to object (see page 4 of this form), and
make sure that the form reaches the court office no later than 7 days, at the latest, after the
date of the application form.
What to do if you do not object to the application
You do not have to respond to the investigator’s application unless you want to object to it. However,
you will be notified of the result more quickly if you use thIs form to acknowledge receipt of the
application and to confirm your contact details, even if you do not object.
What to do if you want the court to change the conditions of your bail
You cannot use this form to ask the court to change the conditions of your pre-charge bail, but you can
apply separately to the court for that. There is an application form under the Part 14 (Bail and custody
time limits) heading at httPs://www.gov.uk/guidance/criminal-procedure-rules-forms.
How to use this form
1 . Make sure that the applicant has entered your name and date of birth, and the date of the application,
correctly in the spaces at the top of the first page.
2. Complete the contact, etc. information in the spaces on the next page.
3. In boxes (1) to (4) beneath, write anything that you want the court to take into account when it
considers the investigator’s application. For example, if you think that the application includes
information that is wrong, explain what you think is wrong. If you think that there is no need for you to
be on bail any longer, explain why. Or if you think that there is no need for the bail conditions that the
applicant intends to impose on you, explain why.
The box numbers in this form correspond with the boxes in the investigator’s application form. They
are to help you make sure that you include everything that you want to tell the court. However, you do
not have to write something in every box unless you want to do so. The court will take account of
everything you write. If you use an electronic version of this form, the boxes will expand: see the forms
at https://www.gov.uk/guidance/criminal-procedure-rules-forms. If you use a paper version and need
more space, you may attach extra sheets,
4. When you have finished filling in this form, sign and date it on the last page and send or deliver it to
the Pre-Charge Bail Central Administrative Unit at the address on the first page. Remember: if you
want to object, your objection must reach the Pre-Charge Bail Central Administrative Unit no later than
5 business days after the day on which the application is served on you, unless the court extends
that time limit. If you are objecting to the application, you must send a copy of this form to the applicant
as well as to the Pre-Charge Bail Central Administrative Unit.
What will happen next
The court may authorise an extension of your time on pre-charge bail if it is satisfied that:
(a) further investigation is needed of any matter in connection with the offence or offences for
which you were released on bail, or further time is needed for making a decision as to whether
to charge you with that offence or those offences,
April 20232


--- Page 26 ---
(b) the investigation into the offence or offences for which you were released on bail is being
conducted diligently and expeditiously, or the decision as to whether to charge you with that
offence or those offences is being made diligently and expeditiously, and
(c) your further release on bail is necessary and proportionate in all the circumstances having
regard, in particular, to any conditions of bail imposed on you
The court must make its decision without a hearinq unless:
(a) the effect of the application, if it succeeds, will be to extend your time on pre-charge bail to
more than 24 months from the day after the day you were arrested and either you or the
investigator asks for a hearing;
(b) the effect of the application, if it succeeds, will be to extend your time on pre-c.harge bail to 24
months or less from the day after the day you were arrested and the court considers that the
interests of justice require a hearing;
(c) the effect of the application, if it succeeds, will be to withhold information from you and the court
considers that the interests of justice require a hearing. In this case1 however1 the court is
required to exclude you and any legal representative of yours from that hearing.
This means that usually the court will make its decision without arranging an appointment for you to
attend. If you think that the court ought to arrange a hearing, explain why in the 'Request for a court
hearing' box on page 4.
Contact, etc. information
Tick each box that applies. If your details in the application form are wrong1 please give your contact details:
L] I have a legal representative who is: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... . . . . . . . . . . . (representative’s name) of
.-.. ........................ 
.......... (firm’s name and address).
[] My contact details in the application form are correct. OR
[] My contact details in the application form are wrong. The correct details are:
My address: .............................................................Postcode....................................
My email address: ................................................................................................
My contact telephone number(s): ...............................................................
[] I object to the application for the reasons explained in boxes (1) to (4) beneath. OR
[] I do not object to the application. If you tick this box you do not need to write anything in boxes ro fo (4)
beneath, just sign and date this form at page 4 and send or deliver it to the court office
(1) The investigation. 
Box (12) in the application form summarises the investigation in connection with which
you were arrested. Write here any comments on what it says in that box.
(2) Your bail. Boxes (q3) & (14) in the application form give the date of your arrest and details of your pre-
charge bail until now. Write here any comments on what it says in that box.
(3) Reasons for the application. 
Box (15) in the application form gives the reasons why the applicant thinks
the court should authorise an extension of the period during which you can be kept on pre-charge bail. Write here
any comments on what it says in that box.
April 20233


--- Page 27 ---
(4) Application for first court extension of pre4harge bail to a longer period (s.47ZF(6)) Box (16)
in the application form gives the reasons why the applicant thinks the extension period allowed by the court ought
to be longer than the standard extension. Write here any comments on what it says in that box.
(5). Application for subsequent extension of pre-charge bail by 6 months (s.47ZG(6)). Box (17) in
the application form gives the reasons why the applicant thinks the extension period allowed by the court ought
to be another 6 months instead of another 3 months. Write here any comments on what it says in that box,
Request for a court hearing (Tick the box that applies. Remember: usually the court must make its decIsion
without a hearing.)
[] if the application succeeds, I shall have been on pre-charge bail for more than 24 months and I want
a hearing.
[] if the application succeeds, I shall have been on pre-charge bail for 24 months or less and I think it
is in the interests of justice for there to be a hearing because: Explain why.
[] I do not want a court hearing.
If the court arranges a hearing, I should prefer to attend [in person] [by video link] [by telephone] (delete
as applicable) .
Application for more time in which to object. 
It you wanf fo object fo the application the time limit for
your response is 5 business days after the day on which the application is served on you, unless the court extends
that time limit.
I need an extension of time for my response
[] No [] Yes
If yes, the reasons are: Explain why,
Other documents.
I am sending (an)other document(s) with this form
[] No []Yes
If yes, list it / them here:
Signed:
Name:
Fdefendant
April 20234


--- Page 28 ---
9£ZOZ lydV
io+e6l;seAUI aHI Aq JO un03 aq) Aq
as!/way lo plo) ssolun jleq JnOA JO suol+lpuoo Aue qIIM Aldwoo o+ anul+u09 +snw noX pue lleq a6Jeq9-OJd uo II!)s aJe
noX :iOqLUOLUOU -ooHJO pnoo oy+ +e Hse io iO+e61;SaAU! aHI Use 'o+ep )eq; JO SH30M Z UIUljM +lnsai aq) plo) uaaq
lou OAeq noX JI 'LUJOJ uo!}eolldde aq) JO app aq) JO sAep z lnoqe Ujq+!M uolsloop s)! oleLU IIjM pnoo ey) Allensn
[aA!+e+UOSOJda]


--- Page 29 ---
OFFICIAL
Generated Date :31/03/2023
MG4F - Refused ChaI
e
35CMm1
Custody Record
Case File Ref
35/NT/12548/23
CUStOdY Station
OIC
Defendant
Date of Birth
Address
Paul STEPHEN
06/06/1995
OFFICIAL, No Fixed Abode, No Fixed Abode, DO NOT EDn No Fixed Abode
Cambridge City District,
Cambridgeshire
Sir/Madam,
With reference to the below offence(s) for which you were arrested / for which you are under investigation
Offences
COML025C > Conspire to murder - potential victim one year of age or older
COML025C > Conspire to murder - potential victim one year of age or older
Based on the evidence currently available a decision has been made to refuse charge you in respect of the above
o#ence(s) because the evidence did not meet evidential stage of the full code test set out in the Code for Crown
Prosecutors
You should be aware of the following:-
The case will be kept under review.
e TIle decision not to charge may be re-considered if a review indicates that it was clearly wrong and should
not be allowed to stand.
, 
if further evidence becomes available in the future, you may be re-arrested and a decision to charge may be
made
, 
The defendant has been advised that the case will be kept under review.
© mle fact that no further action is being taken at this time does not prevent an aggrieved party pursuing
criminal proceedings or civil remedy.
, 
You should ensure you retain any evidence upon which you have relied on whilst in cusU)dy.
This notiae only applies to the offence(s) specified above
, 
if you are currently on bail to return to the police station in respect of these offence(s) it will not now be
necessary for you to return.
, 
it is important to note that any bail conditions imposed in relation to any other offences will still apply.
, 
Any biomebic material will be deleted or may be subject to an application to the Commissioner for the
Retention and Use of Biometric Material for extended retention (quaIIfying offence only) or may be retained
indefinitely due to any previous conviction history.
Offiars Involved
Name of Officer
Sat 35 1766 Goodenough
Det Insp 35 1511®tler
DC 35 2072 Atkinson
Officer Role
Administering Officer
Deciding Officer
Officer in Case


--- Page 30 ---
DCI Katie DOUNIAS
Beds, Cambs & Herts Major Crime Unit
Police HQ, Hex Building
Hinchingbrooke Park
Huntingdon
PE29 6NP
=B:r==B=:::=
Ma-jor-Crii;It–0bit–
12tt1 May 
2023
Dear Paul Stephen,
Re: Operation Scan – Murder - Joshua and Gary Dunmore - 29/03/2023.
I write to advise you that upon review of the above investigation and material gathered to date, your
suspect status has been reinstated.
This means that the Beds, Cambs and Herts Major Crime Unit continue to investigate your suspected
involvement in the offence for which you were originally arrested namely, Conspiracy to Murder.
This letter is provided to you for information only, you do not need to take any action.
If you have any questions I advise you to contact a Solicitor.
Yours Sincerely
Detective Chief Inspector Katie Dounias
Senior Investigating Officer


--- Page 31 ---
Gf fiC IAL 
Generaleli Daie :12/'D2/202.S
NOTIFICATION OF NO FURTHER ACTION
MG4F
Record
NT
35KL/39
,3
Custo'
DC 35 2072 Atkinson
35/NT/12548/23
Case File Ref
Address
Paul STEPHEN
06/06/ 1995
132a Dakota Road, Beck Row, Bul
St. Edmunds. Suffolk. IP28 8HA
Mr STEPHEN,
With reference to the below offence(s) for which you were arrested / for which you are under
investigation :
Conspiracy to Murder
Perverting the Course of Justice
Attempting Abduction
Possession of Firearm
It has been decided that no further action will be taken at this time in respect of the offence(s)
detailed above, for the following reason(s):
•
There is insufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of conviction.
The case will be kept under review. If further evidence becomes available in the future, you may be
re-arrested and a decision to charge may be made.
The decision not to charge may be re-considered if a review indicates that it was clearly wrong and
should not be allowed to stand.
This notice only applies to the offence(s) specified above. If you are currently on bail to return to the
police station in respect of these offence(s) it will not now be necessary for you to return. It is
important to note that any bail conditions imposed in relation to any other offences will still apply.
The fact that no further action is being taken at this time does not prevent an aggrieved party
pursuing criminal proceedings or civil remedy.
Yours faithfully
custody Record No; 35KL/391/23


--- Page 32 ---
<>g=F X<=XiX!
b{!;-},:fF:ted F:>de : }.-i! r3’2. i itSlb
Q &=:T.==
Ct-+r+t+v
qPR
MG4F
CUStOdY Record
Case File Ref
NOTIFICATION OF NO FURTHER ACTION
;9:
35KI
NT
Custody Station
35/NT/12548/23
OIC
DC 35 2072 Atkinson
Defendant
Date of Birth
Address
Paul STEPHEN
06/06/1995
132a Dakota Road, Beck Row, Bu
St. Edmunds, Suffolk, IP28 8HA
Mr STEPHEN,
With reference to the below offence(s) for which you were arrested / for which you are under
investigation :
Conspiracy to Murder
Pewerting the Course of Justice
Attempting Abduction
Possession of Firearm
It has been decided that no further action will be taken at this time in respect of the offence(s)
detailed above, for the following reason(s):
•
There is insufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of conviction.
The case will be kept under review. If further evidence becomes available in the future, you may be
re-arrested and a decision to charge may be made.
The decision not to charge may be re-considered if a review indicates that it was dearly wrong and
should not be allowed to stand.
This notice only applies to the offence(s) specified above. If you are currently on bail to return to the
police station in respect of these offence(s) it will not now be necessary for you to return. It is
important to note that any bail conditions imposed in relation to any other offences will still apply.
The fact that no further action is being taken at this time does not prevent an aggrieved party
pursuing criminal proceedings or civil remedy.
Yours faithfully
custody Record No: 35KL/391/23


--- Page 33 ---
©Ff£ CEA
Genei'a Ead Date: 3.2,/(}2/2€)25
$=
MG4F
NOTIFICATION OF NO FURTHER ACTION
351
NT
Custodv Record
'391/23
Custody Station
m 
548/23
OIC
Case File Ref
DC 35 2072 Atkinson
Defendant
Date of Birth
Address
Samantha STEPHEN
23/09/1989
St. Edmunds, Suffolk, IP28 8HA
132a Dakota Road, Beck Row, Bu
Sir/Madam,
With reference to the below offence(s) for which you were arrested / for which you are under
investigation :
Conspiracy to Murder
Perverting the Course of Justice
Attempting Abduction
It has been decided that no further action will be taken at this time in respect of the offence(s)
detailed above, for the following reason(s):
e
There is insufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of conviction.
The case will be kept under review. If further evidence becomes available in the future, you may be
re-arrested and a decision to charge may be made.
The decision not to charge may be re-considered if a review indicates that it was dearly wrong and
should not be allowed to stand.
This notice only applies to the offence(s) specified above. If you are currently on bail to return to the
police station in respect of these offence(s) it will not now be necessary for you to return. It is
irnportant to note that any bail conditions imposed in relation to any other offences will still apply.
The fact that no further action is being taken at this time does not prevent an aggrieved party
pursuing criminal proceedings or civil remedy.
Yours faithfully
custody Record No: 35KL/391/23
